[toc]

First off, I want to hear you explain w	some code out loud and make sure you are using correct terminology:

######Question 1:

Please explain out lout what is happening on each line of the code below:

```ruby
def mastery(study)
  time = 3
  loop do
    puts study
    time -= 1
    break if time == 0
  end
end

mastery('consistant')
```



###### Answer:

On lines `1-8` we are defining the method `mastery` which takes 1 parameter named `study`.
On line `10` we are calling (or invoking) the method `mastery` and passing in the string `consistant` as an argument to it.

Point to make: Methods are defined with parameters, but are called with arguments.

On line `1` the study parameter is assinged to the `consistant` string.

On line `2` we initialize the local variable `time` and assign it to an integer with value 3.

On line `3` we are calling the method `loop` and pass in the `do..end` block as an argument. 

On line `4` we are calling the method `puts` and passing in the local variable `study` to it as an argument.

On line `5` the local variable time is reassigned. `-=` is actually reassignment and it is Ruby's syntactical sugar for `time = time - 1`. And while we are talking about syntatcital sugar- `time = time - 1` is also syntactical sugar. `-` is not an operator but a method, meaning it can also be written as `time = time.-(1)` . So inside of this code we are actually reassigning the local variable `time` to the return value of a method call to `Integer#-` on a local variable `time` with integer `1` passed to it as an argument.

On line 6 we break out of the loop by using the keywoard `break`  if the value of the object that local variable `time` is referencing is equal to 0.

On `line 10` we are calling the method `mastery` and passing in the string `consistent` as an argument.

Finally, the code outputs the string `consistent` 3 times and returns nil. The last line of code that is executed is returned since we don't have an explict return inside the method definition. The method `puts` is outputting values but returns `nil`

---



Next, let's talk about variable scoping. Variable scoping is at the heart of how Ruby works, so you can't really over emphasize how important this is

###### Question 2

Without running this code, tell me what this code will output:

```ruby
a = 4

loop do
  a = 5
  b = 3
  break
end

puts a
puts b
```

Local variables that are initialized in the outer scope CAN be accessed in an inner scope, but local variables that are initialized that are initialized in an inner scope CAN'T be acces in an outer scope.

######Answer:

Therefore, the code above outputs 5 and then rasis an error `undefined local variable or method b`

We can reassign the local variable `a` on line 4, but if we try to initialize the vaiable `b` it is not accessible to the outer scope. 

Can you change the code to allow it to output the value of the local variable `b`?

Answer:

initialize b on line to to anything. `nil` would work fine.

###### Question 3

Without running the code try to answer what this code will output:

```ruby
a = 4
b = 2

loop do
  c = 3
  a = c
  break
end

puts a
puts b
```

###### Answer:

The code outputs `3` and `2`

On `line 1` we are initializing a local variable `a` within an outer scope.

On `line 4` we call the `loop` method and pass the `do..end` block to it as an argument. Inside of this block we initialize a new local variable `c` which has this block as its scope.

On `line 6` we reassign the local variable `a` so that it points now to the same object that the local variable `c` is referencing. Since we are still in the inner scope defined by the blck, local variable `c` is accessible.

On line `10` we call the `put` method and pass the local variable `a` as an argument and this code outputs the value of vaiable `a` which is `3` now since we reassinged it inside the block.

###### Question 4

Without running the code try to answer what will this code will output:

```ruby
a = 4
b = 2

2.times do |a|
  a = 5
  puts a
end

puts a
puts b
```

###### Answer:

The code will output  5, 5, 4, 2

On `line 1` we are initializing the local variable `a` and setting its value to `4`.

On line `2` we are initializing the local variable `b` and setting its value to `2`.

On line `4` we are calling the`times` method on integer `2` and passing in the`do..end` block as an argument with one parameter `a` .

What is happening on `line 5` ? The `a` on line 5 is the local variable `a` passed in as a parameter of the `do..end` block. It is not the local variable  `a` in the outer scope from line `1`. These are actually two different local variables.

 This is the concept called **variable shadowing** and it happens when parameter name of the block is the same as the name of the local variable which was initialized outside of the block. The consequence of the variable shadowing is that it prevents access to variables of the same name initialized outside of the block. 

Inside of the `do..end` block we are calling the`puts` method and passing the local variable `a` as an argument (this is the local variable passed in as a parameter and assigned to `5` so this code outputs `5` and `5` . `Line 9` outputs `4` since the local variable `a` wasn’t changed , and the final output `2`.

What could you do so that the code reassigns the local variable `a` inside of the `do..end` block?

Answer: Change the value of the block parameter to anything but the `a`.

###### Question 5

Concept: pass by reference / value, and variables as pointers.

What will this code return?

```ruby
def amethod(param)
  param + " Lee"
end

str = "Chris"
amethod(str)
p str

```

###### Answer

`Chris`

######Question 6

What does the `Array#map` method do?

For example, walk me through what is happening here:

`[1, 2, 3, 4].map { |num| puts num }`

###### Answer:

It iterates through the array object passing each element of the array to the block,and runs the block. The `Array#map` method takes return value of the block and moves it into a new array and when it finishes every iteration it returns that new array with elements which were passed in it (return values of block of each iteration). So what is return value of the block after each iteration? Is it the number that is passed in as parameter? Nope, since we are calling method `puts` inside the block, and remember that method `puts` always returns `nil` so our example above would return a new array `[nil, nil, nil, nil`].

###### Question 7

Please provide an example of a non-mutating method and a mutating method. Please use the `object_id` method to help illustrate the difference between the two.

###### Answer

```ruby
greeting = "hello"

greting.upcase.object_id
greeting.object_id
greeting.upcase!.object_id
```



###### Question 8

Write a function that will return the count of distinct case-insensitive alphabetic characters and numeric digits that occur more than once in the input string. The input string can be assumed to contain only alphabets (both uppercase and lowercase) and numeric digits.

You must write out pusdo code / think through an algorithm before you start coding.

```ruby
# Examples / Test Cases
# p duplicate_count("") == 0
# p duplicate_count("abcde") == 0
# p duplicate_count("abcdeaa") == 1
# p duplicate_count("abcdeaB") == 2
# p duplicate_count("Indivisibilities") == 2
```

###### Possible Answer

```ruby
def duplicate_count(str)
  arr = str.downcase.chars
  counts = {}
  arr.each do |char|
    if counts.include?(char)
      counts[char] += 1
    else
      counts[char] = 1
    end
  end
  counts.each_value.select {|num| num > 1}.size
end
```

###### Another Possible Answer

```ruby
def duplicate_count(str)
	str.downcase.chars.sort.chunk_while {|i, j| i == j}.to_a.select {|arr| arr.size > 1}.size
end
```



###### Question 9

Given an array, select the elements of the array whose index is a fibonacci number.

Fibonacci sequence:

0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, etc...

```ruby
# Test cases
alphabet = ("a".."z").to_a
fibs_index(alphabet) == ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'f', 'i', 'n', 'v']

names = ['Nathan', 'Jeanette', 'Joshua', 'Daniel', 'Mark', 'Laura', 'Daniel', 'Kaluah', 'Goober']
fibs_index(names) == ['Nathan', 'Jeanette', 'Joshua', 'Daniel', 'Laura', 'Goober']
```

###### Possible Answer

```ruby
def fibs_index(arr)
  fibs = [0, 1]
  until fibs[-1] > arr.size
    fibs << fibs[-1] + fibs[-2]
  end
  arr.select.with_index {|item, index| fibs.include?(index)}
end
```

